DOCS-#6871: Update Modin on Ray cluster tutorial (#6872)
modin-project/modin: docs/getting_started/using_modin/using_modin_cluster/using_modin_ray_cluster.rst

> ================================
> Using Modin in a AWS Ray Cluster
> ================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Modin on Ray in a Cluster
===============================
```

.. note::
  | *Estimated Reading Time: 15 minutes*

Often in practice we have a need to exceed the capabilities of a single machine.
Modin works and performs well in both local mode and in a cluster environment.
The key advantage of Modin is that your notebook does not change between
local development and cluster execution. Users are not required to think about
how many workers exist or how to distribute and partition their data;
Modin handles all of this seamlessly and transparently.

> .. image:: ../../../img/modin_cluster.png

Reviewer: This picture is not that good looking in the docs. Can we format it for better appearance?

   :alt: Modin cluster
   :align: center
   :scale: 90%

Extra requirements for AWS authentication
-----------------------------------------

First of all, install the necessary dependencies in your environment:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install boto3

> The next step is to setup your AWS credentials. One can set  `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, 
> `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` and `AWS_SESSION_TOKEN` environment variables or  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to setup your AWS credentials. One can set  ``AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID``, 
``AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`` and ``AWS_SESSION_TOKEN`` environment variables or  
```

just run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   aws configure

Starting and connecting to the cluster
--------------------------------------

This example starts 1 head node (m5.24xlarge) and 5 worker nodes (m5.24xlarge), 576 total CPUs.

> You can check the `Amazon EC2 pricing`_ .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the `Amazon EC2 pricing`_ as to the instances you suit most.
```

Author: It is not correctly. In this tutorial we suggest using only the specified instance type and check this in our script.

> You can manually create AWS EC2 instances and configure them or just use the `Ray autoscaler` to 

Reviewer: Can we point to Ray autoscaler docs here instead of just refering to it as `Ray autoscaler`?

Author: Ok, I rewrote it to "Ray CLI" as written in the Ray documentation.

> create and initialize a Ray cluster on Amazon Web Service (AWS) using `Modin's Ray cluster setup config`_ .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create and initialize a Ray cluster on AWS using `Modin's Ray cluster setup config`_ .
```

> You can read more about how to modify `Ray's autoscaler options`_ .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read more about how to modify the file on `Ray's autoscaler options`_ .
```

> Detailed instructions can be found in `Ray's cluster docs`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More details on how to launch a Ray cluster can be found on `Ray's cluster docs`_.
```

To start up the Ray cluster, run the following command in your terminal:

.. code-block:: bash

   ray up modin-cluster.yaml

Once the head node has completed initialization, you can optionally connect to it by running the following command.

.. code-block:: bash

   ray attach modin-cluster.yaml

To exit the ssh session and return back into your local shell session, type:

.. code-block:: bash

   exit

> Executing on a cluster environment
> ----------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Executing in a cluster environment
----------------------------------
```

.. note::
   Be careful when using the `Ray client`_ to connect to a remote cluster.
   We don't recommend this connection mode, beacuse it may not work. Known bugs:
   - https://github.com/ray-project/ray/issues/38713,
   - https://github.com/modin-project/modin/issues/6641.

Modin lets you instantly speed up your workflows with a large data by scaling pandas
on a cluster. In this tutorial, we will use a 12.5 GB `big_yellow.csv` file that was
created by concatenating a 200MB `NYC Taxi dataset`_ file 64 times. Preparing this
file was provided as part of our `Modin's Ray cluster setup config`_.

> If you want use another dataset in your own script, you should provide it to each of
> the cluster nodes in the same path. We recomnend doing this by customizing the
> `setup_commands` section of the [configuration file](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/cluster/modin-cluster.yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use the other dataset, you should provide it to each of
the cluster nodes with the same path. We recomnend doing this by customizing the
`setup_commands` section of the [configuration file](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/cluster/modin-cluster.yaml).
```
This link doesn't work in docs.

> To run any scripts on a remote cluster, you need to submit it to the ray. In this way,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run any script in a remote cluster, you need to submit it to the ray. In this way,
```

the script file is sent to the the remote cluster head node and executed there. 

> In this tutorial, we provide the `exercise_5.py`_ script, which read the data from the
> CSV file and executed some pandas Dataframe function such as count, groupby and applymap.
> As a result of the script, you will see the size of the file being read and the execution
> time of each function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we provide the `exercise_5.py`_ script, which reads the data from the
CSV file and executes such pandas operations as count, groupby and applymap.
As a result of the script, you will see the size of the file being read and the execution
time of each function.
```

Using Modin on Ray in a Cluster
===============================

.. note::
  | *Estimated Reading Time: 15 minutes*

Often in practice we have a need to exceed the capabilities of a single machine.
Modin works and performs well in both local mode and in a cluster environment.
The key advantage of Modin is that your python code does not change between
local development and cluster execution. Users are not required to think about
how many workers exist or how to distribute and partition their data;
Modin handles all of this seamlessly and transparently.

.. note::

>    You can also use a Jupyter notebook, but you need to deploy a Jupyter server 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It is possible to use a Jupyter notebook, but you will have to deploy a Jupyter server 
```

   on the remote cluster head node and connect to it.

.. image:: ../../../img/modin_cluster.png
   :alt: Modin cluster
   :align: center

Extra requirements for AWS authentication
-----------------------------------------

First of all, install the necessary dependencies in your environment:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install boto3

The next step is to setup your AWS credentials. One can set  ``AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID``, 

> ``AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`` and ``AWS_SESSION_TOKEN`` environment variables or  

Reviewer: Can we add a link to some page that explains the appropriate setting of these env vars?

Author: done

just run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   aws configure

Starting and connecting to the cluster
--------------------------------------

This example starts 1 head node (m5.24xlarge) and 5 worker nodes (m5.24xlarge), 576 total CPUs.

> You can check the `Amazon EC2 pricing`_ .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the `Amazon EC2 pricing`_ page.
```

> You can manually create AWS EC2 instances and configure them or just use the `Ray CLI`_ to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possble to manually create AWS EC2 instances and configure them or just use the `Ray CLI`_ to 
```

> create and initialize a Ray cluster on AWS using `Modin's Ray cluster setup config`_ .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create and initialize a Ray cluster on AWS using `Modin's Ray cluster setup config`_,
which we are going to utilize in this example.
```

> You can read more about how to modify the file on `Ray's autoscaler options`_ .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to `Ray's autoscaler options`_ page on how to modify the file.
```

.. code-block:: bash

   ray up modin-cluster.yaml

Once the head node has completed initialization, you can optionally connect to it by running the following command.

.. code-block:: bash

   ray attach modin-cluster.yaml

To exit the ssh session and return back into your local shell session, type:

.. code-block:: bash

   exit

Executing in a cluster environment
----------------------------------

.. note::
   Be careful when using the `Ray client`_ to connect to a remote cluster.
   We don't recommend this connection mode, beacuse it may not work. Known bugs:
   - https://github.com/ray-project/ray/issues/38713,
   - https://github.com/modin-project/modin/issues/6641.

Modin lets you instantly speed up your workflows with a large data by scaling pandas
on a cluster. In this tutorial, we will use a 12.5 GB `big_yellow.csv` file that was
created by concatenating a 200MB `NYC Taxi dataset`_ file 64 times. Preparing this
file was provided as part of our `Modin's Ray cluster setup config`_.

If you want to use the other dataset, you should provide it to each of
the cluster nodes with the same path. We recomnend doing this by customizing the

> `setup_commands` section of the [configuration file](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/cluster/modin-cluster.yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``setup_commands`` section of the [configuration file](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/cluster/modin-cluster.yaml).
```
The link to `configuration file` is not displayed correctly in the docs. Please recheck.

> To run any script in a remote cluster, you need to submit it to the ray. In this way,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run any script in a remote cluster, you need to submit it to the Ray. In this way,
```

the script file is sent to the the remote cluster head node and executed there. 

In this tutorial, we provide the `exercise_5.py`_ script, which reads the data from the
CSV file and executes such pandas operations as count, groupby and applymap.
As a result of the script, you will see the size of the file being read and the execution
time of each function.

.. note::

>    Some Dataframe functions are executed asynchronously, so to correctly measure execution time 
>    we need to wait for the execution result. We use the special `execute` function for this, 
>    but you should not use this function as it will slow down your script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Some Dataframe functions are executed asynchronously, so to correctly measure execution time 
   of each function we need to wait for the execution result. We use the special ``execute`` function for this, 
   but you shouldn't use it in a real case scenario.
```

You can submit this script to the existing remote cluster by running the following command.

.. code-block:: bash

   ray submit modin-cluster.yaml exercise_5.py

To download or upload files to the cluster head node, use `ray rsync_down` or `ray rsync_up`.
It may help you if you want to use some other Python modules that should be available to
execute your own script or download a result file after executing the script.

.. code-block:: bash

>    # download a file from the cluster to the local computer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # download a file from the cluster to the local machine:
```

   ray rsync_down modin-cluster.yaml '/path/on/cluster' '/local/path'

>    # upload a file from the local computer to the cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # upload a file from the local machine to the cluster:
```

   ray rsync_up modin-cluster.yaml '/local/path' '/path/on/cluster'

Modin performance scales as the number of nodes and cores increases. The following

> chart shows the performance of the read_csv operation with different number of nodes,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
chart shows the performance of the ``read_csv`` operation with different number of nodes,
```
